src/main/doc/rest-demo.adoc, before:


== Starting

Let's create a rest domain class, for example in +grails-app/domain/rest/Book.groovy+

[source,groovy]
--
package rest

import grails.rest.Resource

@Resource(uri='/books')
class Book {

    String title
    String author

    static constraints = {
        author nullable: true
    }
}
--

Now let's add some books in +BootStrap.groovy+:

[source,groovy]
--
import rest.Book

class BootStrap {

    def init = { servletContext ->
        new Book(title: 'First Book').save()
        new Book(title: 'Second Book', author: 'some author').save()
    }
    def destroy = {
    }
}
--

And finally let's see that books in the browser, changing +grails-app/views/index.gsp+:

[source,html]
--
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Rest grooscript demo</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h2>List of books</h2>
    <g:each in="${rest.Book.list()}" var="book">
        <p>Title: ${book.title} - Author: ${book.author?:'unknown'}</p>
    </g:each>
</body>
</html>
--

Ok, now we have our application ready. Run the app +> grails run-app+ and check that all is correct in your
browser at +http://localhost:8080/rest-demo+. You must see the two book added in the bootstrap.

== Grooscript list

Now let's add grooscript grails support for rest domain classes. Then, we can work with our domain classes
from the client, and save data in our server just saving our classes in the client side. First let's change our
view, and get the list of books from the client side.

[source,html]
--
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Rest grooscript demo</title>
    <asset:javascript src="jquery.js"/> //<1>
    <asset:javascript src="grooscript-grails.js"/> //<2>
</head>
<body>
    <grooscript:remoteModel domainClass="Book"/> //<3>
    <h2>List of books</h2>
    <div id="bookList"/>

    <grooscript:code> //<4>
        import rest.Book

        def drawBooks = { //<5>
            Book.list().then { list -> //<6>
                $('#bookList').html ''
                list.each {
                    $('#bookList').append('<p>Title: '+it.title+' - Author: '+ (it.author?: 'unknown') +'</p>') //<7>
                }
            }
        }

        $(document).ready {
            drawBooks() //<8>
        }
    </grooscript:code>

    <asset:deferredScripts/> //<9>
</body>
</html>
--
<1> Need import jQuery to work with grooscript tags.
<2> grooscript-grails.js is also needed, because contains grooscript.js and some helper utilities.
<3> With this tag we can now use Book domain class in the client.
<4> With this tag you can write groovy code that will be converted to javascript and will run in your browser.
<5> Define function to draw a list of books using jQuery.
<6> You can call domain methods as *list*, and you get a promise, with a *then* method that will run if all is ok.
<7> Add books to the DOM.
<8> Run *drawBooks* when the page is ready in tle client.
<9> You have to add asset pipeline deferredScripts to process grooscript tags.

The difference between old code and the new code is that now, the *render of the books is done in the client*. This
is the bigger change when you use grooscript tags. You are creating groovy code that is converted to
javascript, and is running in the client side. The server now has less work to do. The conversion process is slower,
but only is done 1 time in production, because it uses cache plugin.

[TIP]
--
When you insert groovy code in grooscript tags, don't use ${}, because grails will try to process that code in the gsp.
--

The actions available with your rest domain class are: *get(id)*, *save()* to create or update, *list()* to retrieve
a list of objects, and *delete()*. You can use them as you use in your controller or services, but grooscript will
return a promise of the result, because in the client an ajax call is done. The interface of the promise is the
following, and fail closure is optional:

[source,groovy]
--
interface GsPromise {
    def then(Closure success, Closure fail)
}
--

== Add books

I don't wanna make this demo too long, and explain all grooscript and plugin stuff, but let's add more
functionality to this demo. Let's add more books from the client. First let's add inputs and the button:

[source,html]
--
<h3>Add a new book</h3>
<p>Title: <input type="text" id="title"></p>
<p>Author: <input type="text" id="author"></p>
<button type="button" onclick="addBook()">Add book</button>
--

Now let's add the function to save the book in server database and add to list:

[source,groovy]
--
import rest.Book

def drawBooks = {
    Book.list().then { list ->
        $('#bookList').html ''
        list.each {
            appendBookToList(it)
        }
    }
}

def appendBookToList = { book ->
    $('#bookList').append('<p>Title: '+book.title+' - Author: '+ (book.author?: 'unknown') +'</p>')
}

def addBook = {
    def title = $('#title').val()
    def author = $('#author').val()
    new Book(title: title, author: author).save().then {
        appendBookToList(it)
    }
}

$(document).ready {
    drawBooks()
}
--

If you reload the page, now you can add books to the list, and books are saved in your database. You can check
that the book is added with the url of the list of books +http://localhost:8080/rest-demo/books+.

[TIP]
--
You can use javascript objects in your groovy code as _$_ or _console_. *println* do a console.log().
--

Commit message:

Generate remote domain classes files in production

src/main/doc/rest-demo.adoc, after:


== Starting

Let's create a rest domain class, for example in +grails-app/domain/rest/Book.groovy+

[source,groovy]
--
package rest

import grails.rest.Resource

@Resource(uri='/books')
class Book {

    String title
    String author

    static constraints = {
        author nullable: true
    }
}
--

Now let's add some books in +BootStrap.groovy+:

[source,groovy]
--
import rest.Book

class BootStrap {

    def init = { servletContext ->
        new Book(title: 'First Book').save()
        new Book(title: 'Second Book', author: 'some author').save()
    }
    def destroy = {
    }
}
--

And finally let's see that books in the browser, changing +grails-app/views/index.gsp+:

[source,html]
--
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Rest grooscript demo</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h2>List of books</h2>
    <g:each in="${rest.Book.list()}" var="book">
        <p>Title: ${book.title} - Author: ${book.author?:'unknown'}</p>
    </g:each>
</body>
</html>
--

Ok, now we have our application ready. Run the app +> grails run-app+ and check that all is correct in your
browser at +http://localhost:8080/rest-demo+. You must see the two book added in the bootstrap.

== Grooscript remote domain classes

Now let's add grooscript grails support for rest domain classes. Then, we can work with our domain classes
from the client, and save data in our server just saving our classes in the client side. First let's change our
view, and get the list of books from the client side.

[source,html]
--
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Rest grooscript demo</title>
    <asset:javascript src="jquery.js"/> //<1>
    <asset:javascript src="grooscript-grails.js"/> //<2>
</head>
<body>
    <grooscript:remoteModel domainClass="Book"/> //<3>
    <h2>List of books</h2>
    <div id="bookList"/>

    <grooscript:code> //<4>
        import rest.Book

        def drawBooks = { //<5>
            Book.list().then { list -> //<6>
                $('#bookList').html ''
                list.each {
                    $('#bookList').append('<p>Title: '+it.title+' - Author: '+ (it.author?: 'unknown') +'</p>') //<7>
                }
            }
        }

        $(document).ready {
            drawBooks() //<8>
        }
    </grooscript:code>

    <asset:deferredScripts/> //<9>
</body>
</html>
--
<1> Need import jQuery to work with grooscript tags.
<2> grooscript-grails.js is also needed, because contains grooscript.js and some helper utilities.
<3> With this tag we can now use Book domain class in the client.
<4> With this tag you can write groovy code that will be converted to javascript and will run in your browser.
<5> Define function to draw a list of books using jQuery.
<6> You can call domain methods as *list*, and you get a promise, with a *then* method that will run if all is ok.
<7> Add books to the DOM.
<8> Run *drawBooks* when the page is ready in tle client.
<9> You have to add asset pipeline deferredScripts to process grooscript tags.

The difference between old code and the new code is that now, the *render of the books is done in the client*. This
is the bigger change when you use grooscript tags. You are creating groovy code that is converted to
javascript, and is running in the client side. The server now has less work to do. The conversion process is slower,
but only is done 1 time in production, because it uses cache plugin.

[TIP]
--
When you insert groovy code in grooscript tags, don't use ${}, because grails will try to process that code in the gsp.
--

The actions available with your rest domain class are: *get(id)*, *save()* to create or update, *list()* to retrieve
a list of objects, and *delete()*. You can use them as you use in your controller or services, but grooscript will
return a promise of the result, because in the client an ajax call is done. The interface of the promise is the
following, and fail closure is optional:

[source,groovy]
--
interface GsPromise {
    def then(Closure success, Closure fail)
}
--

== Add books

I don't wanna make this demo too long, and explain all grooscript and plugin stuff, but let's add more
functionality to this demo. Let's add more books from the client. First let's add inputs and the button:

[source,html]
--
<h3>Add a new book</h3>
<p>Title: <input type="text" id="title"></p>
<p>Author: <input type="text" id="author"></p>
<button type="button" onclick="addBook()">Add book</button>
--

Now let's add the function to save the book in server database and add to list:

[source,groovy]
--
import rest.Book

def drawBooks = {
    Book.list().then { list ->
        $('#bookList').html ''
        list.each {
            appendBookToList(it)
        }
    }
}

def appendBookToList = { book ->
    $('#bookList').append('<p>Title: '+book.title+' - Author: '+ (book.author?: 'unknown') +'</p>')
}

def addBook = {
    def title = $('#title').val()
    def author = $('#author').val()
    new Book(title: title, author: author).save().then {
        appendBookToList(it)
    }
}

$(document).ready {
    drawBooks()
}
--

If you reload the page, now you can add books to the list, and books are saved in your database. You can check
that the book is added with the url of the list of books +http://localhost:8080/rest-demo/books+.

[TIP]
--
You can use javascript objects in your groovy code as _$_ or _console_. *println* do a console.log().
--

== Use in production

The remote domain classes feature is still experimental, but if you want to use in production you have to generate
remote domain classes files. When this feature is used in development, it search for your domain classes in
your filesystem, convert them to javascript, and added js code to your gsp.

In production you have to generate files that will be added to your ./build/resources dir. You have to execute
a script to do that conversion:

[source,shell]
--
> grails generate-remote-domain example.Book

or

> grails generate-remote-domain example.Book example.Library ...
--

And later generate the war / jar.
